AMP-110505 [DWH] Update Snowflake/DataBricks import doc for mutation setup (#294)
amplitude/amplitude-docs: content/collections/source-catalog/en/snowflake.md

| Region | IP Addresses                                    |
| ------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| US     | `52.33.3.219`, `35.162.216.242`, `52.27.10.221` |
| EU     | `3.124.22.25`, `18.157.59.125`, `18.192.47.195` |

{{/partial:admonition}}

## Limits

- Maximum running time for a single Snowflake SQL query is 12 hours.

{{partial:admonition type="warning" title="User and Group properties sync"}}
Amplitude's Data Warehouse Import sometimes processes events in parallel, so time-ordered syncing of user and group properties on events isn't guaranteed in the same way as submitting events directly to the Identify and Group Identify APIs. 
{{/partial:admonition}}

## Add and configure the Snowflake source

Complete the following steps to configure the Snowflake source:

1. [Set up and verify the connection](#set-up-and-verify-the-connection)
2. [Select data](#select-data)
3. [Select the import strategy](#select-the-import-strategy)
4. [Map your data](#map-your-data)
5. [Schedule your sync](#schedule-your-sync)

### Set up and verify the connection

To add Snowflake as a data source in your Amplitude project, follow these steps:

> 1. In Amplitude Data, navigate to **Catalog → Sources**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Amplitude Data, navigate to *Catalog → Sources*.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 2. In the Warehouse Sources section, click **Snowflake**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the Warehouse Sources section, click *Snowflake*.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

3. Enter the required credentials for the Snowflake instance you want to connect:

    - **Account**: Snowflake account name. Case sensitive. This is the first part of your Snowflake URL, before `snowflakecomputing.com`. Don't include ".snowflakecomputing.com" in your account name.
    - **Database**: Name of the database where Amplitude can find the data.
    - **Warehouse**: Used by Amplitude to execute SQL.
    - **Username**: Used by Amplitude for authentication.
    - **Password**: Used by Amplitude for authentication.

   Amplitude offers password-based and key pair authentication for Snowflake.

>     - If you want to use password authentication, select **Password** and enter your password in the **Password** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If you want to use password authentication, select *Password* and enter your password in the *Password* field.
```

>     - If you want to use key pair authentication, select **Key pair** and then click **Generate Key**. Then provide the organization and account names in the format `ORGNAME-ACCOUNTNAME`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If you want to use key pair authentication, select *Key pair* and then click *Generate Key*. Then provide the organization and account names in the format `ORGNAME-ACCOUNTNAME`.
```

4. Copy the autogenerated SQL query and run it in Snowflake to give Amplitude the proper permissions.

> 5. After running the query, click **Next** to test the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. After running the query, click *Next* to test the connection.
```

> 6. After the test is successful, click **Next** again to move on to the data selection stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. After the test succeeds, click *Next* again to move on to the data selection stage.
```

### Select the data type

> The data type you select informs the strategies and settings available to you for configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data type you select defines the strategies and settings available to you for configuration.
```

| Group Properties | Includes dictionaries of group attributes that apply to a a group of users. Each property is associated with a group name.                                               |
| Profiles         | Includes dictionaries of properties that relate to a user profile. Profiles display the most current data synced from your warehouse, and are associated with a user ID. |

### Select the import strategy

Select from the following strategies, depending on your data type selection. 

| Strategy  | Description                                                                                                                                        |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Full Sync | Ingests the entire dataset on a defined schedule. This option is useful for datasets that change over time, but can't show which rows are changed. |
| Timestamp | Ingests the most recent rows on a schedule, as determined by the Timestamp column.                                                     |

> | Change data capture (CDC) | Ingests the most recent rows of data on a schedule, as determined by Snowflake's Change Data Capture feature. CDC supports customization of the Feed Type (for Event data) and Data Mutability Settings.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Change data capture (CDC) | Ingests the most recent rows of data on a schedule, as determined by Snowflake's Change Data Capture feature. CDC supports customization of the feed type (for event data) and data mutability settings.|
```

See the following table to understand which data types are compatible with which import strategies.

| Data type | Supported import strategies |
| -------| ----- |
| Event | CDC, Timestamp |
| User properties | Full Sync, Timestamp |
| Group Properties | Full Sync, Timestamp |
| Profiles | CDC |

{{partial:admonition type="note" heading="Change Data Capture options"}}

> For the Event data type, the CDC strategy supports configuration of the CDC Feed Type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the `Event` data type, the CDC strategy supports configuration of the CDC feed type. 
```

Select *Ingestion Only* to ingest from your warehouse and include Amplitude's enrichment services like ID Resolution, property and attribution syncing, and location resolution.

Select *Continuous Sync* to mirror your Snowflake data with support for `insert`, `update`, and `delete` operations. This option deactivates Amplitude's enrichment services to ensure you remain in sync with your source-of-truth.

*Continuous Sync* also supports Data Mutability settings. Select which options to enable, `update` or `delete`. `insert` operations are always on.
{{/partial:admonition}}

### Map your data

> Depending on the Import Strategy you choose, you'll map your data with a SQL statement to transform the data (Timestamp, Full Sync) or use the Data Selection Tool to map column names directly to Amplitude properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the import strategy you choose, either map your data with a SQL statement to transform the data (Timestamp, Full Sync) or use the data selection tool to map column names directly to Amplitude properties.
```

### Schedule your sync

> Provide a name for the source, and select the frequency with which Amplitude imports your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide a name for the source, and set the frequency with which Amplitude imports your data.
```

## Choose the best integration for your use case

When choosing an integration strategy, consider the following:

> - **Full Sync**: Choose this option if you need to periodically ingest the entire dataset and can't track which rows have changed. This method is best for smaller datasets in which you can't track incrementally. This method isn't suitable for large datasets due to the overhead required to ingest all data each time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Full Sync**: Choose this option if you need to periodically ingest the entire dataset and can't track which rows have changed. This method is best for smaller datasets where tracking incrementally isn't possible. This method isn't suitable for large datasets due to the overhead required to ingest all data each time.
```

- **Timestamp Import**: Choose this option if you can incrementally import data using a monotonically increasing timestamp column that indicates when records when Snowflake loads the records. This is efficient and works well when you append new data with timestamps.

- **Change Data Capture (CDC) Ingestion Only**: Choose this option to import data based on changes detected by Snowflake's CDC feature while still using Amplitude's enrichment services. This method only supports reading `INSERT` operations from the CDC

- **Change Data Capture (CDC) Continuous Sync**: Choose this option to directly mirror the data in Snowflake with `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, and `DELETE` operations based on changes detected by Snowflake's CDC feature. This method disables Amplitude's enrichment services to remain in sync with your source of truth and is ideal when you need to keep Amplitude data fully synchronized with your Snowflake data. `UPDATE` and `DELETE` operations mutate data in Amplitude.

{{partial:partials/data/snowflake-strat-comp}}

## Prerequisites and considerations for CDC

> When using CDC Continuous Sync, be aware of the following limitations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using CDC Continuous Sync, keep the following things in mind:
```

Reviewer: These aren't all limitations.

- **Enable Change Tracking**: Enable change tracking for the source table or view. See [Enabling Change Tracking on Views and Underlying Tables](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/streams-manage.html#label-enabling-change-tracking-views) in Snowflake's documentation.

> - **Data Retention Settings**: `DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS` must be greater than or equal to `1`, but Amplitude recommends at least `7` days. Otherwise, the change-based import fails. For more details, see [Time Travel](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-time-travel) in Snowflake's documentation. Setting `DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS` to `0` disables the change tracking and causes the connection to become unrecoverable. If this happens, recreate the source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Data Retention Settings**: `DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS` must be greater than or equal to one, but Amplitude recommends at least seven days. Otherwise, the change-based import fails. For more details, see [Time Travel](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-time-travel) in Snowflake's documentation. Setting `DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS` to `0` disables the change tracking and renders the connection unrecoverable. If this happens, recreate the source.
```

Reviewer: Style guide requires numbers between zero and nine to be spelled out. 10 and up are represented numerically.

> - **Disable Change Tracking**: If you disable change tracking in Snowflake or disconnect the Amplitude source for a period longer than the value of `DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS`, Amplitude loses the ability to track historical changes. In this case, recreate the connection. To avoid duplicate events, ensure all events have an `insert_id` set, and recreate the connection within seven days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Disable Change Tracking**: If you disable change tracking in Snowflake, or disconnect the Amplitude source for a period longer than the value of `DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS`, Amplitude loses the ability to track historical changes. In this case, recreate the connection. To avoid duplicate events, ensure all events have an `insert_id` set, and recreate the connection within seven days.
```

- **Unique and Immutable `insert_id`**: Ensure the data to be imported has a unique and immutable `insert_id` for each row to prevent data duplication if there are any unexpected issues. More about Amplitude deduplication and `insert_id` is available in [Event Deduplication](/docs/apis/analytics/http-v2/#event-deduplication).

- **Complex SQL Statements**: If a data source is represented as a complex SQL `SELECT` statement (for instance, with a `JOIN` clause), create a `VIEW` in your Snowflake account that wraps the data source to use it with a change-based import strategy. See [Streams on Views](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/streams-intro#streams-on-views) for considerations when using CDC with views in Snowflake.

> - **Views with JOINs**: While Snowflake CDC is efficient, using views that contain JOINs can have performance implications. Consider syncing joined data as User Profiles instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Views with JOINs**: While Snowflake CDC is efficient, using views that contain JOINs can have performance implications. Consider syncing joined data as user profiles instead.
```

> - **Avoid Table Deletion and Recreation**: Don't delete and recreate tables with the same name, as Snowflake CDC doesn't capture changes in this scenario. Use [incremental models](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/incremental-models) with tools like [dbt](https://www.getdbt.com/) to prevent table replacement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Avoid table deletion and re-creation**: Don't delete and recreate tables with the same name, as Snowflake CDC doesn't capture changes in this scenario. Use [incremental models](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/incremental-models) with tools like [dbt](https://www.getdbt.com/) to prevent table replacement.
```

> - **Handling Schema Changes**: CDC supports adding new columns with default `NULL` values to CDC-tracked tables or views. Amplitude recommends against other kinds of schema changes. Snowflake CDC only reflects changes from DML statements. DDL statements that logically modify data (such as adding new columns with default values, dropping existing columns, or renaming columns) affect future data sent to Amplitude, but Snowflake doesn't update historical data with changes caused by DDL statements. As a result, Amplitude doesn't reflect these updates for historical data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Handling schema changes**: CDC supports adding new columns with default `NULL` values to CDC-tracked tables or views. Amplitude recommends against other kinds of schema changes. Snowflake CDC only reflects changes from DML statements. DDL statements that logically modify data (such as adding new columns with default values, dropping existing columns, or renaming columns) affect future data sent to Amplitude, but Snowflake doesn't update historical data with changes caused by DDL statements. As a result, Amplitude doesn't reflect these updates for historical data.
```

> - **Amplitude Enrichment Services Disabled**: When using CDC **Continuous Sync**, Amplitude disables enrichment services like ID resolution, property and attribution syncing, and resolving location info to remain in sync with your source of truth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Amplitude enrichment services disabled**: When using CDC **Continuous Sync**, Amplitude disables enrichment services like ID resolution, property and attribution syncing, and resolving location info to remain in sync with your source of truth.
```
